Do you want to make a big improvement in your 
English? One of the best ways to do that is by  

mastering English tenses. This means understanding 
the difference between saying "I work" or "I am  

working", "I have worked", or "I had worked", and 
so on. Tenses tell us when something happened,  

and whenever you communicate in English, you're 
using an English tense. The only question is,  

are you using the right tense?
In this series, you will learn all  

of the English tenses. These are full, complete 
classes for anyone who wants to speak, write, or  

understand English more easily and clearly. With 
each tense, we will go step by step from beginning  

to end. We'll also go through the program from 
beginner level to the advanced level of tenses.  

And we'll do lots of practice along the way.
In addition, I will show you a special way to  

understand these tenses, so you can really start 
to use them more easily and quickly. Remember,  

tenses give structure to the language. If your 
structure is weak, your English will be weak.  

But if your structure is strong, 
your English will be strong.
 

So, join me in this program to master the 
English tenses so that you can communicate  

fluently and confidently in English.
Hi, I'm Rebecca, and welcome to this series on  

English tenses. In this program, you will learn 
how to use each of the English tenses, step by  

step, so that you can communicate more powerfully 
and correctly and confidently in English.
 

Now, when we say English tenses, what does that 
mean? Tenses are simply the way we talk about time  

in any language. So, for example, when we want to 
say when something happened, we're using tenses.  

If we're talking about the past, the present, or 
the future, we need to use tenses. And in English,  

there are twelve tenses. Don't let that frighten 
you. I'm going to explain it to you in a way that  

makes it much easier for you to understand and 
start to use each of these tenses. And that's  

how you will progress in your English. Okay?
So, first, I've divided the tenses into six basic  

tenses and six advanced tenses. And I'm going to 
show you exactly the kind of patterns that exist  

throughout this tense system, so that as you 
go forward, many parts of it will become easier  

and easier. Okay? Alright. That's first of all.
Now, in terms of what are these lessons actually  

like? In terms of the content - these are not 
short lessons. These are full, complete classes  

on each tense. Alright? Just as if - if you 
were in a language school in North America  

or England or Australia. That's the kind of 
class it'll be. A solid class on each tense.
 

So, in these classes, I will explain, for each 
tense, when to use it and how to use it. We  

will do lots of practice so that you really feel 
comfortable using that tense correctly in terms of  

the grammar, in terms of when to use it. And also, 
we'll look at some common mistakes that students  

often make so that you don't make those mistakes. 
I've also created some bonus lessons where we  

compare different tenses. Because sometimes the 
confusion is not within the tense but between  

tenses. So, I've got some comparison lessons that 
will help you understand the differences. Okay?
 

Next - so, how could you do this course? 
Here are my suggestions. First, make a plan,  

alright? Make a schedule for yourself. 
When are you going to watch them? And then,  

like any school, show up for class. Really, it's 
not just about wishing that you get better, or  

hoping that you get better in English. It's about 
making a decision and then taking the actions. So,  

you've already made the decision, because 
you're watching this, and that's amazing. Now,  

make the plan so you can take the action steps you 
need to reach your goal. Okay? That's first.
 

Next - watch the lesson. Alright? Take 
your time with it. Don't rush through it,  

even if some part seems easy, watch it 
anyway. Let your brain get really comfortable  

and completely knowledgeable in that area, 
okay? And while you're watching, participate.  

What does that mean? Be an active learner. 
Make notes. Go get a special notebook,  

a special binder, just for this course, this 
program, alright? Take notes as you go along.  

Participate and repeat after me when I'm - when 
we're doing the pronunciation sections. Answer me  

when I'm asking questions, work on the exercises 
with me so that you are fully engaged and  

learning fully throughout that time, alright?
Next - review. Whenever you have time or during  

the week or something like that, between your 
classes, review what you've learned. Go back - if  

there's any particular part you're not sure 
about, go back over it and just learn it again.  

Review it so that you'll feel really sure as you 
go forward into the other tenses. And it will make  

everything so much easier for you, okay?
I know that this program will work for you.  

Just stay with it and show up and keep going 
through it, step by step, and I know that it  

will lead you to a higher level of English. How 
do I know that? Let me take just a few seconds  

to tell you a little bit about myself. My 
name's Rebecca Ezekiel. I've been teaching  

English for more than 30 years, and I've worked 
with thousands of students from all over the world  

to help them improve their English for 
academic purposes, business purposes,  

and all kinds of other reasons. Alright? 
I've also created lots of training programs  

for corporations and governments and schools and 
colleges. So, I assure you, you're in good hands.  

I understand you. I understand your challenges, 
but also your hopes and dreams in improving  

your English to really expand your life.
So, let's go on this journey together and,  

most important, let's get started!
In this video, I'm going to give you an  

overview of all of the English tenses. And I'm 
going to show you a special way to understand them  

so that you can learn them more easily. So, this 
video is part of the www.engvid.com series on  

English verb tenses.
But what are tenses anyway?  

Tenses are just the way we refer to time in a 
language. We could be talking about the past or  

the present or the future. In English, there 
are twelve different tenses, and they can be  

explained in many different ways, but I'm going 
to show you a simple way that I think will make  

it much easier for you to learn, understand, 
and start using them. So, let's have a look.
 

So, on the board, I've written the twelve tenses. 
In red are the names of the tenses, and in black  

is an example each time of that tense. Alright? 
But right now, you don't have to worry about that.  

This is just to give you the big picture, 
alright? But don't worry if you don't know  

the names of these tenses or the examples. It 
doesn't matter at all. Once we begin the program,  

you will be learning one tense at a time 
and you'll learn everything you need to  

know when you get to that tense. Alright?
So, what do we need to see here, though, that is  

helpful to us? So, even though there are twelve 
tenses, I've divided them in a particular way.  

The first six are what I call the basic tenses. 
Because usually, these are the ones you learn  

first when you start learning English. The 
second part, the second six tenses are more  

advanced tenses. Usually, you start learning those 
a little bit later. That's the first part.
 

Now, let's look at it this way. On this side, 
we see simple tenses. On this side, we see  

continuous tenses, which are sometimes called 
progressive tenses. But all those names, simple,  

continuous, doesn't matter right now. Because 
when you get to that tense, you'll understand it.  

What is important, though, is that many of 
the patterns and rules that you'll learn here  

will help you throughout this part of the tenses. 
And many of the rules and patterns about grammar,  

pronunciation, and spelling that you learn right 
here with this continuous tense will help you all  

the way through to the most advanced tense.
What does that mean for you? It means that,  

as you go forward in this program, from the 
beginner tenses and the more basic tenses  

to the more advanced tenses. It's not - 
everything is not going to get harder.  

Many of the points will actually become easier, 
because you will already have learned them up  

here in the basic tenses, or here, because many of 
these, as you can see - actually all of them have  

some sort of continuous aspect, which you will 
understand completely when you get there. Okay?
 

So, that's the most important points that I think 
you should take away right now from this. All  

you need to do at this point now is to begin the 
program with the first tense, which is the present  

simple tense. So I wish you all the best.
Hi, I'm Rebecca. Welcome to this series on  

English tenses. In this class, we will look at the 
present simple tense. I'll show you exactly when  

to use it, how to use it, and also what mistakes 
to be careful of when you're using this tense.  

We'll also go through lots of practice exercises 
together, so you'll learn exactly how to use  

this tense correctly and confidently. 
Are you ready? Let's get started.
 

This series is about English tenses. But what 
are tenses anyway? Tenses are simply the way  

we talk about time in English. What do we mean by 
time? We mean the past, the present, the future,  

right? These are all different times and we have 
different tenses to express or talk about those  

times. So, in this lesson, we're going to 
look at the two basic ways that you - we can  

speak about the present in English and they are: 
the present simple and the present continuous,  

or present progressive as it's also called.
Now, although we are focusing on the present  

simple, I want to give you a little 
overview so you understand the basic  

differences between these two simple tenses, 
alright? So, let me give you an example.  

In present simple, we would say "I work". And in 
present continuous, we would say "I am working".  

So, what's the difference? What's the 
difference between these two sentences?  

What's the difference, is there a difference? 
I don't know, what do you think? Well,  

I do know. And there is a difference. Perhaps, in 
your language, there isn't any difference because  

in many languages, there is no difference between 
the way that these two ideas are expressed,  

but in English, there is a difference in 
the idea and the way that we say it.
 

So, let me explain what that difference is. When 
we say "I am working", which is that other tense,  

present continuous, which we can learn later, that 
is talking about something that is happening now,  

or something temporary. What do I mean by now? 
For example, I am teaching. You are listening,  

right? All these things are happening right now. 
So, when we are saying that, when I'm saying that,  

I'm using present continuous. But when 
I say "I work", that is in general.  

For example, I may not be working at this 
moment, but I work somewhere. I have a job. So,  

when we talk about something that's true 
in general, that's present simple. Also,  

present simple is for something that's more or 
less permanent. For example, if you have a job,  

of course, no job or thing in life is necessarily 
permanent. What does permanent mean, that it lasts  

all the time, but let's say you're not 
changing jobs every day. So, more or less,  

this is the job you'll always have. This is 
your permanent job. So then, for those kind  

of activities, we use present simple and we say 
"I work at the bank". "I work in the store" etc.  

But, "I am working" would just be right now, or it 
could also be for something temporary. "Temporary"  

means only for a short period of time. This is 
for always, this is for a short period of time.  

This is true in general, and this one 
is true for something happening now.  

So, those are some basic differences 
between these two tenses.
 

Now, let's focus on the tense that we're 
working on today, which is present simple. So,  

how does it sound? How does it actually work? It's 
like this - so these are the different subjects,  

and this is the verb and the way we use it. 
So just repeat it after me: I work. You work.  

We work. They work. He works. She works. And: 
It works. "It" meaning the air conditioner,  

or the computer. "It" is for something which 
is not a person but it's for a thing.
 

And we saw some differences there. 
Don't worry about those changes now.  

We're going to learn all about 
that in a later part of this  

lesson, okay? So that's what it sounds like. This 
is a basic description of these two differences  

which you can keep in mind as we now move 
forward with the present simple tense.
 

Now, let's look at when we use the 
present simple tense, okay? So, we have  

five different situations in which we can use 
this tense. Let's go through them one by one.
 

First of all, we can use the present simple tense  

to talk about things which are permanent. Which 
are more or less always true, okay? For example:  

"We live in New York". So, let's suppose that 
this is where you live, right? Not just for a  

short time, but for a long time, and more or less, 
it's a permanent situation. It's always true for  

you. It doesn't mean it's completely true always, 
but most of the time, this is where you live.  

So, that's what we consider permanent. 
So, we could say "We live in New York",  

"He works at a bank", so when we say, "He works 
at a bank", it means that's his permanent regular  

job, okay? It's not a temporary job, it's not 
a job that he has just for a little while,  

that's where he works most of the time, okay? 
So, we use this for permanent situations.  

Think about yourself, okay? Whenever 
you're trying to learn a tense,  

one of the great things you can do is to 
think of an example that applies to your life,  

or to people that you know. What is permanent 
for you? So, you could say a sentence right now,  

such as "I live in _______", whichever city 
you live in. Or, if you're working somewhere,  

and then you could say "I work 
__________", okay? So, you,  

by making these sentences are already using the 
present simple tense. It's that simple. Okay.
 

So, let's look at another situation in 
which you can use the present simple tense.  

For routines. So, what's a routine? A routine is 
something you do regularly, okay? For example,  

"I wake up at 6:00 every day.", okay? "I go 
to sleep at 11:00". So, wake, go, these verbs  

are in the present simple tense because they're 
talking about a regular activity, a routine.  

We can also use this tense to talk about facts. 
For example: "The sun rises in the east".  

It's just a fact, it's something that's a 
scientific truth. It's not something that I  

decided or you decided, it's just true. We could 
also say "The sun sets in the west", okay?
 

Next, we can use this tense 
to talk about schedules,  

because think about it, what is a schedule? A 
schedule tells us when something is going to  

happen, and that's kind of connected to this 
point, right? A regularly scheduled event.  

So, for example, we could say 
"Our class starts at 9:00."  

Why are we using present simple? Because 
our class always starts at 9:00, alright?  

It's kind of permanent, it's kind of a routine, 
it's a schedule. Or, the flight leaves at noon.  

Not just this time, but the flight 
always leaves at noon. It has a schedule  

and therefore we're using the present 
simple tense with the words "starts"  

and "leaves". Okay, got that?
Now, let's look at one other situation.  

There are some words in English, and they're 
called adverbs of frequency, to describe how often  

something is happening. And these words are shown 
down here, but let's look at this sentence first.  

"She always takes the bus". So, always is a 
word that tells us how often something happens,  

and all of these words down here are just like 
that. So, if always is like 100% of the time,  

we have other words. We have the word "never", 
which is 0%, it never happens. It doesn't happen  

at all. So, we could say he or she never takes 
the bus. We could also say, let's say, 50%  

of the time, okay, she takes the bus. So, 
we could say "She sometimes takes the bus".  

Or, once in a while, okay, 
"She rarely takes the bus".  

Or, "She often takes the bus". So, when you see 
one of these words, which are called adverbs of  

frequency, that also tells you that you should 
be using the present simple tense, along with  

these other situations. So, if you want to learn 
it really well, as I said, apply it to yourself.  

Say something about your routine. Say something 
about what you always do, or what you never do,  

and that way, you are already 
using the present simple tense.
 

Now, let's look at how to 
form the present simple tense.  

So, I've divided the board into three sections. 
For positive sentences, negative sentences,  

and for questions. And we'll go through 
each one step by step, okay? So,  

for these subjects, I, You, We, and They, 
we just say "work". For example, "I work".  

You can say it after me, that way, you will 
remember the grammar, you'll also get the  

pronunciation, and it'll help you to learn and 
remember. So, repeat after me: I work, you work,  

we work, they work. Good. Now, look 
what happens here. When it comes to he,  

she, and it, we need to add an "s", okay? That's 
all. We need to add an "s" for he, she, and it,  

not because it's plural, it's not 
plural, but from a grammar point of view,  

in the present simple, we need to add an 
"s" here. So, say it after me: He works,  

she works, and it works. Okay? Very good. So, 
that's for a positive or affirmative sentence.
 

Now, let's look at a negative sentence. So, what 
we would say is "I don't work" if we're shortening  

it, or we would say "I do not work". So, what 
happened here? How did we make it negative?  

First, we have to add this word "do", and 
down here, we have to add the word "does".  

So, this is a helping verb that we have to use 
in this negative form, alright? So just learn  

it the way it is and then you'll understand it 
and you'll get used to it. So, we say "I do not  

work". The "do not", when we shorten it, becomes 
"don't", and how does that happen? We take out the  

"o" here and then we squeeze these words together, 
we join them together, and it becomes "don't". So,  

first, let's say it with the contraction, with the 
short form, because that's how we usually speak.  

It is correct to say, "I do not work", but usually 
we'll say "I don't work", alright? But the most  

important thing to remember is here we say, "I do 
not work" but here it becomes "He does not work",  

and "does not" when we shorten it, 
when we contract it, becomes "doesn't".  

So, what happened here? We cancelled the "o" and 
again, we joined these two words "does" and "not"  

and it became "doesn't", and you can always know 
how to spell this contraction or this short form  

because of where we put the apostrophe. We put 
the apostrophe, this little comma that's in the in  

the air, in the place where we take out a 
letter. So, we put it here instead of the "o"  

and we put it here instead of the "o". So, let's 
go through these. I don't work, You don't work,  

We don't work, They don't work. Now, let's go 
to he, she, and it. Remember, he, she, and it  

is always going to be a little bit different. 
Let's hear it and say it: He doesn't work,  

She doesn't work, It doesn't work. Let's say the 
phone, the computer, it doesn't work, okay?
 

Now, let's go to the questions. So, what 
happens in the questions? In the question,  

we also have to use that helping verb: "do". 
"Do" here, and "does" down here, and we have to  

change the order, so instead of saying "I do", 
we say "Do I?", alright? So, repeat it after me:  

Do I work? I don't know, I don't remember. 
Do you work? Do we work? Do they work?  

Down here, you would say, with he, she, 
and it: Does he work? Does she work?  

Does it work? Alright? Now usually, of course, 
you're not just going to say "Do you work?" You  

might say something more than that. Do you work 
on Fridays? Do you work Monday to Friday? Do  

you work at the bank? Alright? So usually 
there's something more, but I've just put  

the basic form here so that you understand 
the structure of how to use this tense.
 

Now, another important point is that 
sometimes, when we ask questions,  

we don't just start with "do" or "does", but we 
need to add a question word, right? So, maybe  

you want to say "where". What are the question 
words, first of all: who, what, when, where, why,  

how, how much, how many, how often, okay? 
These are all what are called question words,  

but if you have one of these question words, 
all you have to do, it's really easy, the only  

thing you have to do is to put that question 
word right before this structure. So, "Where  

do you work?", right? When do you work? 
Why do you work? How much do you work?  

How often do you work? But we're keeping the same 
structure and we still need to have that helping  

verb "do". The same down here: Where does he work? 
When does she work? Okay? So, keep that structure  

and even if you have a question word, don't 
worry, just put it at the beginning. So,  

here we have some examples: Where do 
you live? What do you do? Okay?
 

But the most important thing to remember is 
this part, okay? He works. She works. It works.  

This is the only place in the entire board 
where we're adding an "s" to the verb itself.  

Everywhere else, we're just using the base form 
of the verb, right? So, let's say our verb is  

"to work". So, here it's "work". I work, I don't 
work, Do you work? He works, here it's different,  

but after that, it goes back to the base form 
of the verb, right? He doesn't work. Does he  

work? So even though with he, she, and it 
in the positive sentence we add the "s",  

but here in the negative, no, go back to the 
base form and in the question, go back to the  

base form of the word "work", but you do need 
to remember that in that positive sentence,  

add the "s", okay? So, that's the structure 
of the present simple tense. It's really  

pretty straightforward, you just need 
to practice it and you will get it.
 

Now, let's look at some of the spelling changes 
we need to make in the present simple tense.  

We only need to make those changes, as I mentioned 
earlier, when we're using he, she, or it, because,  

for example, we say "I work" but "He works", 
right? So what was the spelling change we needed  

there? We had to add an "s". And most of the 
time, with most verbs, all you need to do is add  

that "s". For example, dance becomes dances. You 
can say it after me as well, okay? Cook - cooks.  

Sleep - sleeps. Alright? So there, all we did, 
we just added the "s" for the he, she, or it.
 

Next, if the verb ends with 
an s, or an sh, or a ch,  

or an x, then we need to add "es". And we can 
almost hear it, okay? Just listen. For example,  

kiss - kisses. You see that we're hearing "kisses" 
"es" a little bit - it's a little bit longer,  

so that tells us we need to add an "es". 
The next one, wash becomes washes. Teach -  

teaches. Fix - fixes. Okay? So, that's another 
change. Another one is verbs ending in a consonant  

and y. What do I mean by that? If we look at this 
verb: study, it ends with a y, right? And just  

before the y, we have a consonant. What's 
a consonant? Anything that's not a vowel  

is a consonant. So, what's a vowel? A vowel in 
English is a, e, i, o, or u. Everything else: b,  

d, g, x, etc., these are all consonants. So, 
d is a consonant. Or here, in the word try,  

we have a y and before that, we have a consonant, 
right? So, what happens in those cases? We have  

to drop that last y and we have to add "ies". 
You've probably seen this lots of times, okay,  

but this is actually what's happening. So, 
study becomes studies. Try becomes tries,  

okay? You'll get it, you'll see. Fry - fries, 
right? Like French fries, okay? Alright.
 

So, then, last of all, there are some other 
verbs. They're usually irregular verbs,  

okay? These are the most common patterns, but 
there are a few verbs where the ending might be  

different in one way or another, okay? Sometimes 
the verb really changes and you have to pay  

attention to that. You may be familiar with many 
of these already, but here are a few examples.  

Go becomes like "I go", "He 
goes". "I do", "She does".  

"I have", "It has". So you see that in 
some cases, the verb changed completely,  

okay? So these are the most common patterns for 
spelling changes in the present simple tense.
 

Now, let's look at how to give short answers 
in English. See, in real conversation,  

when someone asks you a question, we don't 
usually repeat the whole question in our answer.  

We just give what's called like a short 
answer. Let me give you an example.  

If someone says, "Do they need help?", then you 
can just say, in short, either "Yes, they do" or  

"No, they don't". So, we do not have 
to say "Yes, they need help", right?  

You don't have to repeat that whole question. 
You just give what's called the short answer.  

And how do you know how to shorten it? 
It's really easy. So, if the question  

starts with "Do", like this, right? Then your 
answer will include some form of "do" or "don't",  

depending on if it's a positive sentence or a 
negative one. So, we see here "Do they need help?"  

"Yes they do.", right? Or "No, they don't." 
Alright? So, the "do", the way the question starts  

is the way you will be able to answer it, 
alright. It's really pretty simple, it really is.  

The important thing to remember is that 
in the affirmative or positive answer,  

we cannot shorten it, okay? There is no way 
to shorten that correctly. So here, we have  

to say "Yes, they do", but here we can use the 
short form, or that contraction that we learned,  

and you can say "No, they don't". Alright?
Let's look at another example. This time, I think  

you'll be able to apply the principle yourself. 
So, the question is "Does he speak French?".  

So, how did it start? With "does". So, what 
are our options? "Yes, he does.", right?  

Or "No, he doesn't." Okay? Again, the "does" is 
used in the short answer. "Yes, he does." "No,  

he doesn't." Got it? Alright. So, based on that, 
you can see that you could answer any question  

that someone's asking you in present simple 
by just listening carefully to the question,  

but you do have to pay attention also to the 
subject here. So for example, in this last one,  

"Do you like this song?", somebody asks you, 
"Do you like this song?". So your answer -  

they're asking you, so you can't say "Yes, 
you", you have you say "Yes, I". "Yes, I do",  

the "do" comes into play again, or "No, I don't." 
So again, you do see the same principle applied  

all the way. And again, remember, in the 
positive form, you cannot shorten it,  

but in the negative form you can and you should 
shorten it because that's how we normally speak,  

and these short answers are used a lot in normal 
conversation, so it would be a good idea for you  

to learn them and it's really pretty fast and 
I think you might have already learned them.  

So, do you understand? You could say "Yes, I do!" 
I hope that's what you said, okay? Alright.
 

Now, let's look at some common mistakes that 
students often make when they start using the  

present simple tense, and this way you'll know 
what to be careful of so that you don't make  

these kind of mistakes, alright? Let's look. So 
usually the mistakes are of four different kinds.  

Sometimes, the mistake is in the tense itself. So 
remember we mentioned at the beginning that there  

can be present simple and present continuous, and 
that present simple is for something permanent  

and present continuous is for something 
temporary. So sometimes, learners get mixed up  

between these two tenses. So, let's say in this 
example that this person lives in Tokyo, right?  

It's not just for a little while, it's where that 
person lives. So, if that person said "I am living  

in Tokyo", that would be wrong. If that's where 
the person stays permanently, he or she should say  

"I live in Tokyo". They could say "I am living 
in Tokyo" only if it's something temporary,  

alright? So, that is one mistake that's 
sometimes made with the present simple,  

that confusion between it and present continuous. 
Now, let's look at another kind of mistake.  

That's when a mistake is made with the verb form. 
You'll find it because now you're good at this,  

okay? Ready, let's read. These are all 
mistakes, okay, so these are all wrong,  

we're going to correct them together. The 
sentence right now says "We likes to travel."  

So, the verb is wrong. What should it be?  

"We like to travel". Say it after me: We 
like to travel. Good. Here's a mistake,  

the same thing in the verb form, but in a 
negative sentence: "They doesn't eat vegetables."  

That's wrong, you know that. What should it be? 
"They don't eat vegetables". Say it after me:  

"They don't eat vegetables". Good. 
And here's a mistake in the question:  

"Does you talk to him often?" That's wrong. 
We can't say that. We need to say what?  

"Do you". Say it after me: "Do you talk to him 
often?" Good. Alright? So those are verb form kind  

of mistakes. Another mistake that's possible is in 
spelling. We looked at the many kinds of spelling,  

right, and you need to make the changes. So 
here, the person wrote "She trys to save money",  

but the spelling of the verb is incorrect, because 
here it's a y and before that it's a consonant,  

remember? So what should it be? "Tries". 
They had to drop that "y" and add "ies". So,  

you'll pick up those spelling changes, okay? 
Just pay attention when you're reading and so on  

and it'll come to you unnaturally.
Next, sometimes an entire word is missing.  

So, let's look at this one. This is a 
question: "What time you finish work?".  

It almost sounds right, but it's not. It's 
wrong. Grammatically in English, that's wrong.  

Can you understand it? Yes, you can understand it, 
but it's still wrong. So, how do we correct it?  

Did you find the mistake? So we should 
say "What time do you finish work?".  

So, what was missing was that helping 
word, okay, that helping verb, remember,  

we do have to add that even if you have 
a question word here like "what time",  

alright? "What time do you finish work?". So, 
these are the four main kinds of mistakes that you  

have to be careful of. In tense, using the wrong 
tense, using the wrong verb form, making any kind  

of spelling mistakes, or leaving out an essential 
verb or helping verb. Alright? That's it!
 

You've been learning a lot, so now it's 
time to practice. Let's get started.
 

Number 1: I take, but he ________. 
What would you say in present simple?  

I take, he takes, right? You have to 
add that "s" there, right? Very good.
 

Now, let's work it the other way.
Number 2: She does, We _______. Do you  

know it? We do. Very good.
Number 3: You enjoy.  

She ______. Yes, I can hear you. 
She enjoys. Very good. Alright
 

Now, let's make some phrases negative, alright, 
so we're going from positive to negative.
 

Number 4: They study. They 
________________. Use the contraction.  

They don't study. Right? "Don't" being short 
for what? Do not. Right, you've got it.
 

Number 5: The next one. He sings. Make 
it negative. He ________________. Yes,  

He doesn't sing. "Doesn't" is short 
for what? Does not. Very good.
 

Now, let's make some questions. So,  

let's read the sentence first.
Number 6: She wants to buy a new phone.
 

How would we ask the question? What's the 
helping verb you have to use, helping word?  

Do, or does, giving you a clue there. Here, it's 
"She", so we have to say, "Does she want to buy a  

new phone?" Okay, so remember, we come back to the 
base form of the verb and we have to use "do" or  

"does", but because it's she, we're saying "does". 
"Does she want to buy a new phone?" Okay? Good.
 

Let's do the last one.
Number 7: They sell books online.  

Ask a question about that. Again, 
what are you going to start with?  

"Do" this time, right. "Do they sell books 
online?", right? Okay? Why "do"? Because now  

we're talking about they. And why "does" here? 
Because we were talking about "she", alright.
 

So, if you got those right, that's great! If you 
got any wrong, maybe you can go back later and  

check those parts, but we're going to practice 
some more, we're going to learn a little bit more,  

and you'll get it for sure by the 
end of this, okay. Stick with me.
 

To review: you know the present simple tense when 
you know when you use it, which we talked about,  

and how to use it. And how do you know that you 
know how to use it? When you can do these things:  

you can make a positive sentence, a negative 
sentence, and a question. For example,  

you should be able to say easily "They live in 
Amsterdam." or "They don't live in Amsterdam." or  

"Do they live in Amsterdam?". You should be able 
to switch easily and comfortably and quickly and  

correctly between these three sentences, okay?
So, remember, this is the present simple tense,  

but this is an entire series that we have of 
English tenses, so from the present simple,  

you can go to the next class which is on the 
present continuous tense, and that way you can  

take your English forward step by step, alright? 
And if you'd like a little more practice on this  

tense, the present simple tense, go to 
www.engvid.com , alright? Thank you very much  

for watching, I know you're a serious student, 
and I know you're going to make good progress.
 

Hi, I'm Rebecca, and welcome to this class on the 
present continuous tense, which is also called the  

present progressive tense. Now, this class is part 
of the engVid series on English verb tenses. So,  

the present continuous tense is a basic tense. 
It's usually one of the first tenses that you  

start to learn when you start studying English. 
However, it doesn't exist in every language,  

and it might not exist in your language. So, it's 
possible to make mistakes very easily and it's  

a basic tense, so we really don't want to make 
those kind of mistakes. So, just stay with me.  

We're going to go through it step by step. I'll 
show you exactly how to use it, we'll do lots of  

practice together, and you will understand and be 
able to use it. So, are you ready? Let's start.
 

So, there are two basic tenses, first, to start 
to talk about the present. They are the present  

simple and the present continuous, okay? We know 
it has two names, I'm just going to use one name.  

So, what's the difference? Let's look at some 
examples in each of these tenses. So, in the  

present simple, I would say "I work". In the 
present continuous, I would say "I am working".  

So, what is the difference between these two? "I 
am working" talks about something that's happening  

right now. For example, I am teaching. 
You are watching. You are listening. Or,  

it can also talk about something temporary, 
like you're watching this lesson this moment,  

but also for a short time. Short is a general 
idea, okay? So, it could be something that's  

happening now, or something temporary.
However, we use "I work" in present simple  

to talk about things that are true in general. 
I work in this company, but I'm working now. Or,  

I work in this company, but I'm not working 
now. I'm having lunch. See the difference, okay?  

We also use present simple to talk about things 
that are more permanent, like your job, right? You  

don't change your job usually every day. It's more 
or less permanent; where you work, where you live.  

This is more permanent and general, present 
simple, and this is more temporary and now.  

So, that's the basic overview and the basic 
idea. And, how do we actually form this tense?  

We form it by using the subject 
like I, you, we, they, he, she, it,  

plus the verb "to be", plus the verb, 
plus -ing. Let's look at an example:  

"I am working". So, we have the 
subject and the verb "to be" and  

each form of the verb "to be". I am working, You 
are working, We are working, They are working,  

He is working, She is working, It's working, 
okay? Like the computer, the air conditioner,  

whatever, okay? So, that's the 
basic overview of this tense.
 

Now, let's look at when we use the present 
continuous tense. So, as we saw earlier,  

we can definitely use it to talk about something 
that's happening right now. For example,  

"The baby is sleeping", don't make noise, okay? 
Or for example, "Oh, it's raining outside",  

alright? So those are examples of something 
happening right now. We can also use this tense to  

talk about something that's happening around now. 
For example, "He is writing a book". So, he might  

not be writing it this minute, but he's writing 
it around now. We don't know how long it'll take,  

but it's happening around this time. So, 
we can use it in that context. For example,  

we could also say "He's working on a project". 
Maybe the project is going to take one week and  

maybe it'll take one year, or ten years, we don't 
know, but it's happening around now, okay?
 

Next, we can also use it to talk about 
something temporary. Not something that happens  

all the time, but something temporary. For 
example, that book, right? We don't know,  

maybe it's going to take him three years to write 
the book, but in his mind, it's not something  

that's going to last forever. It's something 
temporary, okay? So, this is more about how you  

look at what is happening. Or, this example, 
something temporary, "We are staying at hotel".  

We live in our home, that's permanent, 
but right now, while we're in this city,  

while we're travelling, we are staying at a 
hotel. That's something temporary. Okay?
 

Next, we can also use it to talk about a 
trend. A trend is something that's changing,  

okay? Something that's developing. For example, 
"The prices of homes are increasing". Let's  

say the prices were here, and now the prices are 
going up, so we can say the prices are increasing.  

Some sort of changes that are happening. And we 
can also talk about a trend in terms of something  

that's popular. Often, we talk about things - 
fashion trends, for example, right? People are  

wearing a certain color. People are wearing bright 
colors this summer, or people are wearing certain  

kinds of shoes. So, we can talk about trends 
using this present continuous tense, alright?
 

So, those are the basic ways in which we use 
this tense, but I just want to let you know that  

there are also two slightly more advanced 
ways in which we can use this tense. So,  

let's look at what they are. The first one is 
to talk about some kind of repeated action,  

but it's usually something negative. So, 
we're using it to kind of - when we want  

to complain about something. For example, 
if you say, "They're always making noise",  

that's a negative remark, right? So, we can 
use "always" in this context with the present  

continuous tense. Usually, we use words like 
always, never, sometimes, frequently, and so on,  

to talk about present simple. Something that's 
true in general. For example, "They always help  

us", or just to talk about facts. But when 
you're talking about something negative,  

then very often we can use this present continuous 
tense, but that's a slightly more advanced way to  

use it, so don't worry about it too much, but 
you might hear people using it that way.
 

And, another point, I know that I said this 
is called the present continuous, and it talks  

about the present, not the past, not the future, 
the present, however, sometimes we can actually  

use it to talk about the future, but only in 
a special way. So, let's look at what that is.  

If I say, "She's flying to Mexico next week.", 
now, if I didn't say "next week", if I only said,  

"She's flying to Mexico", what does it mean? It's 
happening right now. So, when I want to use this  

tense to talk about the future, I have to say 
something like this. I have to say next week,  

tomorrow, next summer, next year, I have to give 
it some kind of time in the future and then you  

can use present continuous for the future in a 
slightly more advanced way, okay? So, those are  

the basic ways in which we use this tense.
Now, let's look at when not to use the present  

continuous tense. So, first of all, everything 
here, all these examples, these are all wrong,  

okay? And we're going to understand why. So, 
we cannot use the present continuous tense to  

talk about any permanent actions or activities. 
For example, for most people, where they live,  

where they work, these are more or less 
permanent. They don't change every day. They're  

not temporary, right? So, if I live in Canada 
all the time, then it would be wrong to say,  

"I am living in Canada". That would only 
be okay if it was something temporary.  

Similarly, if I work at ABC company, and that's 
my permanent job, it would be wrong to say,  

"I am working at ABC Company". I would 
need to say, "I work at ABC Company".  

That would be a difference tense, the present 
simple tense. And similarly here, if I live in  

Canada, I need to say "I live in Canada" and not 
"I am living", because that would be temporary.  

So, that's the most common kind of mistake that 
people make, so be really careful of that.
 

Similarly, we have stative verbs. This is another 
area that you have to be really careful about.  

Why? Because in English, there are two kinds of 
verbs: action verbs and what are called stative  

verbs. So, action verbs are your normal verbs 
that you know most of the time like work, run,  

play, jump, okay? And stative verbs describe 
a state, or a condition. It could be a mental  

state. It could be an emotional state, okay? And 
with this tense, we cannot use stative verbs,  

and in fact, in any continuous tense in English, 
you cannot use stative verbs. Let me give you some  

examples of stative verbs. For example, it would 
be wrong to say, "I am understanding English". No.  

You cannot say that, because "understand" is a 
stative verb, to do with your mind, so it's wrong  

to say that, okay? This is all wrong, okay. It 
would be wrong to say, "We are liking this show".  

Liking is wrong because "like" is a 
stative verb. So, we would need to say,  

"We like this show". "I understand English", okay? 
Similarly, here, when you talk about verbs that  

refer to what you own, what you possess, what you 
have, we cannot use those verbs in the stative  

form with this tense. So, it would be wrong 
to say, "They are having a car". You would  

need to say, "They have a car". Similarly, 
again, there's a long list of stative verbs,  

but the verb "need" and the verb "want" are very 
common verbs which are usually stative verbs and  

therefore you can't use them in this tense. So, 
it would be wrong to say, "Are you needing help?".  

You would need to say, "Do you need help?", okay? 
So, whether you have learned the present simple  

or not, don't worry right now, just understand 
that with the present continuous, you cannot use  

stative verbs, so everything here is wrong.
Now, let's look at how we form  

the present continuous tense. Let's 
start by looking at a sample sentence.  

"I am working". So, we saw that there are 
three parts: I, which is the subject, am,  

in this case, which is a form of the verb 
"to be", then we have the verb "work", right,  

and then we have "-ing", alright? So, 
in order to use this tense correctly,  

you need to know two things: you need to be 
sure that you know the verb "to be" perfectly,  

and then you need to know how to add the verb + 
ing and any changes you need to make in spelling.  

So, what I've done is I've divided this lesson. 
First; into just looking into the verb "to be"  

to make sure that you're using it correctly, 
because if you have mistakes in the verb "to be",  

this central part, then you will make mistakes 
in this tense. But if you've got it right,  

then you'll be absolutely fine. So, let's just 
take a minute to review the verb "to be", alright?  

And then we'll move on to the next part.
So, in a positive sentence, it would be I am.  

You are. We are. They are. He is. She is. It is.  

Now, when we say the verb "to be", the verb "to 
be" is one of the most common verbs, but it is  

used in two ways. One is by itself. For example, I 
can say "I am a teacher.", or we can also use the  

verb "to be" as a helping verb, as it's being used 
in this tense. Then, I could say "I am teaching".  

Now, the verb "to be" became a helping verb, but 
one way or the other, whether I'm using the verb  

"to be" by itself or I'm using it in this context, 
then I still need to know exactly how to use the  

verb "to be". So now, let's look at the negative. 
I am not. You are not. We are not. They are not.  

What do you notice? We're just adding "not", 
right? Let's do it a little bit more. He  

is not. She is not. It is not. Okay? Right 
now, don't worry about this last part. We're  

going to add that soon, okay? Let's just get 
this part right, the verb "to be", alright?
 

Next, let's look at when we have the verb 
"to be" in a question or in our tense.  

So, what do we do? Instead of saying "I am", 
we say "Am I?". If you had the verb after that,  

you'd say, "Am I working?" and so on, but we'll 
look at that in a minute. Right now, just master  

this part. It's a critical part of understanding 
and using this tense correctly. Are you?  

Are we? Are they? Right? The same at the bottom 
here: Is he? Is she? Is it? Alright? So, make  

sure that you can use the verb "to be" so that you 
can use the present continuous tense correctly.
 

Now, let's look at how we form the full 
present continuous tense. You already  

know the verb "to be", now we'll say a positive 
sentence, a negative sentence, and a question.  

So you can repeat after me, it will be very 
good practice to also hear the correct form.  

I am working. You are working. We are 
working. They are working. He is working.  

She is working. It is working. Okay, got 
that? Good. For the negative, it's very easy,  

you just add "not" before the verb, plus the -ing, 
so "not working", right? You are not working.  

He is not working. They are not working. Like 
that, okay? It's very simple, just take this  

and add "not working". Now, for the question, we 
have to reverse the order. So, instead of saying  

"I am", we say "Am I?", right? Just like with the 
verb "to be", same thing, that's why I told you  

the verb "to be" is so important, it's part of 
this tense. So, repeat after me, the questions:  

Am I working today? Are you working? 
Are we working? Are they working?  

Is he working? Is she working? Is it working? So, 
that's your basic question form. Now remember,  

you can always add a question word 
before that. For example, you could say  

"When are you working?". Where are you working? 
How long are you working? But what's important -  

what's important if you do that is to keep 
this same order. Keep your question order.  

Don't turn it back into a sentence. Just add the 
question word, like when, or how long, or why,  

or something like that, and keep this structure. 
When are you working? Where are you working? Why  

are you working? And so on, okay? And that's 
how you form the present continuous tense.
 

Now, let's look at how we use contractions in 
the present continuous tense. So, in English,  

sometimes, instead of saying, for example, 
"I am learning", we shorten it or contract it  

and say, "I'm learning". So, why do we do 
that? Usually, it's faster, it's easier,  

and we use it a lot in informal conversation 
and also in informal writing. We do not usually  

use contractions like these in formal business 
writing or in academic writing, but we use them  

a lot on an everyday basis. So, let's see how 
to spell them and how to pronounce them.
 

So, I am becomes I'm. What happened here? 
We took away the A and put an apostrophe  

where we took away the letter and we joined 
those two words. I'm. You are becomes you're.  

We are becomes we're. They are becomes 
they're. He is becomes he's. She is --  

she's. And it is -- it's. Okay? Alright, so 
let's say a sentence, a really short sentence,  

with these contractions, so you can learn how 
to say them easily and naturally. I'm learning.  

You're learning. We're learning. 
They're learning. He's learning.  

She's learning. It's learning. Okay? Good.
Now, we can do the same thing when it's  

negative. So, instead of saying "I am not", 
we can shorten it in one way only, we can say  

"I'm not". So basically, we just took the "I'm" 
and added "not", alright? So, we just got rid  

of this and then we joined these two, okay? 
Sorry, we didn't join them, but we used them,  

one after the other, okay? I'm not. So, let's say 
a sentence: I'm not watching. Are you watching TV?  

No, you can put it off, I'm not watching, 
okay? Next: You are not becomes what? There  

are two possibilities here. First, let's just add 
"not". So, "you are not" can become you're not,  

we're not, they're not. Or, "You are not" 
can be contracted in a different way.  

Here, we're just going to take away the O here 
and put an apostrophe and combine these two.  

What we did here is we took this one and we 
got rid of this letter and combined this one.  

So, let's look at it for a second. "You are 
not here" became "You're not". We contracted  

these two words. "You are not here", we got 
rid of the o and we joined these two words:  

are not. So, the other possibility is "You 
aren't". Say it after me: You aren't watching.  

We aren't watching. They aren't watching. 
Okay? Very good. The same here - "He  

is not" can become "He's not", 
right? We got rid of this one.  

She's not, It's not. Or, we can get rid of the 
o here and join this and we can say "He isn't",  

She isn't watching. It isn't watching. So that's 
how we spell and pronounce the contractions.
 

Now, let's look at some spelling changes we need 
to make to the verb when we're using the present  

continuous tense. So, with all of the verbs, you 
need to add "-ing". And to most of the verbs,  

that's all you need to do. You just need to add 
"ing". For example, eat becomes eating. Walk -  

walking, right? All we did was add that "ing", 
but with some verbs you need to make a few small  

other changes. For verbs ending in E, we need 
to drop the E and then add "ing". For example,  

use becomes using, so we dropped or cancelled 
this E and added ing. Take becomes taking. Again,  

we dropped or cancelled the e, alright? Good.
For verbs ending in "ie", we need to drop the ie  

and add y and then add the ing. For example, lie, 
right, l-i-e, cancel ie, add y, then ing. Lying.  

Tie becomes tying, okay? That's it!
Now, for some verbs, ending in a C-V-C pattern,  

we have to double the last letter. What does 
that C-V-C? C stands for consonant, V for vowel,  

and C again for consonant. A vowel in English is 
A,E,I,O or U and a consonant is any other letter.  

So, what you do is look at the verb, alright, you 
look at the verb from the end, it will be easier,  

and if it follows that pattern, right, C, a p is 
a consonant, an a is a vowel, and then the l is  

a consonant, so if it follows that pattern, 
C-V-C, then double that last letter. Now,  

there are some special circumstances, it doesn't 
always apply, but it often applies. There are  

patterns in English spelling and sometimes there 
are exceptions. So, in this case, clap becomes  

clapping. Sit becomes sitting. Okay? And those are 
the major spelling changes you need to make.
 

Now, let's look at how to give short 
answers in the present continuous tense.  

So, in English, if someone asks you a question 
and your basic answer is "Yes" or "No", we don't  

usually just say "Yes" or "No". We usually say a 
little bit more than that. But, at the same time,  

we don't have to repeat everything they asked 
us in the question in our answer. So, what we  

do is something like this. If someone says, "Is he 
working late?" you could simply say "Yes, he is",  

or "No, he isn't." And how do you know what to 
say here? You just take it from here, right?  

So, is he? Yes, he is. Or, no, he isn't. Alright, 
so, what's important to notice is that in the  

positive answer, you cannot use any contraction. 
You cannot shorten it and say "Yes, he's".  

No, that's wrong. But in the negative, you can 
definitely use the contraction. You can say "No,  

he is not", it's not wrong, but usually we'll 
just use the contraction. The same thing here:  

"Are they going to the meeting?" So, we could say 
what? Yes, they are, or no, they aren't, okay?  

So, you're basically taking your answer 
clues from the question itself. And again,  

no contraction possible in the positive answer.
Here's another one. "Are you studying?"  

So here, it's going to be a little bit different. 
Why? Because they're asking, "Are you" and  

they're - you have to answer with "I", right? So 
here, you cannot use it, but you will simply say  

"Yes I am" or "No, I'm not". Got it? You can't 
take it from there, but you can still just give  

a short answer. You don't have to say "Yes, I am 
studying", "No, I am not studying", just say "Yes,  

I am", "No, I'm not". In fact, it's a good thing 
to just know this phrase, alright? Yes, I am.  

No, I'm not. So, for example, if I ask you "Are 
you learning the present continuous tense?"  

"Yes, I am." "Are you making progress in your 
English?" "Yes, I am". "Are you feeling happy?"  

I hope you're saying "Yes, I am."
Now, let's practice what you've been learning.  

So, we have some positive sentences we're going 
to work with, some negative ones, and some  

questions. So, first, we'll take a sentence 
which is in present simple and we're going to  

change it to present continuous, okay?
Number 1 -- "I go" becomes what? "I  

am going." Or "I'm going." Alright? You can also 
contract it or shorten it. "We wait". Let's use  

the contracted form and turn it into the present 
continuous form. "We wait" becomes what? "We're  

waiting", right? We're waiting. 
We are waiting. We're waiting.  

Good. "They play" - again, let's use the 
contraction just so you can practice the  

spelling, also where to put that apostrophe and so 
on and pay attention to it. "They play." becomes  

"They're playing.", okay? Very nice. Alright.
Now, we have a sentence that's already  

in present continuous. What we want to 
do is to change it to the negative form  

in present continuous. "She's calling." How 
can we make that negative? There are two ways.  

She's calling - make it negative - She's not 
calling, this is one way, and the other way - She  

isn't calling, right? Those were the two ways that 
we learned. She's not calling. She isn't calling.  

Alright? Very good. "We're cooking". Make it 
negative. First, the easy way, you can always  

just use the easy way too, if you're unsure - 
We're not cooking. I call this one the easy way,  

because you just need to add "not" and it's 100% 
right. It's not like that one is better than this  

one, no, everything is equally correct. We're not 
cooking, or what's the other way though? We aren't  

cooking. Okay? So again, pay 
attention to the spelling there.  

Next, number 6 - "I'm reading". Make 
it negative. What will it become? I'm  

not reading, and in this case, that's the only 
form that we can make it negative. Alright.
 

Now, the questions. So, right now, it's 
just a sentence. Let's see how we can make  

it into a question. "They are buying a new 
car." Make it a question, it's really easy.  

Got it? Yes, just move these around. Are they 
buying a new car? And of course, the first word  

will be capitalized, and the second word will not. 
"She is doing her homework." Make it a question,  

what is it? The same thing. Is she doing her 
homework? Good. And if you're writing it,  

again, it would be capital for the first 
letter and then not capital after that.  

"We are leaving at 8:00." Make 
it a question - same thing.  

Are we leaving at 8:00? And of course, at the 
end of each of these, we would have a question  

mark if you're writing it down. So, how did you 
do? Hope everything is going well, and I'm sure  

it is. Let's look at a little bit more.
Now, let's look at some common mistakes  

that are made with the present continuous 
tense, and you can help me correct them.  

The first kind of mistake - sometimes 
the verb "to be" is missing. For example,  

"My brother watching the news". So, what did 
that student need to say? What did that person  

want to say? What's missing? The verb 
"to be"? So, we have to say "My brother  

is watching the news", okay? Remember, 
we have the subject, the verb "to be",  

and then the verb + ing. Sometimes, the same 
thing can happen but in a negative sentence.  

For example, this person wrote "John 
not helping". How can we correct that?  

"John" - the easy way to correct it is to 
say "John is not helping" or you can always  

contract it and say "John's not helping". Okay? 
Or we can say "John isn't helping". Alright.
 

Sometimes, the verb "to be" is missing in 
a question. Instead of saying "She going?",  

what's wrong there? What should 
we be saying? We should be saying  

"Is she going?". Is she going, right? Again, 
we needed that verb "to be". We can't have this  

tense without the verb "to be", right? That's 
why we looked at it so many times, so make  

sure that you don't forget it. Next, sometimes 
the verb "to be" is there, but it's incorrect.  

There's an incorrect form of it being used. 
For example, this person wrote "Bob and Maria  

is driving home". That's not right. They have 
the verb "to be" but it's not in the right form  

because "Bob and Maria" is like "they", 
right, so it should be "Bob and Maria  

are driving home", okay? And here, 
this person wrote "He ain't studying."  

Now, "ain't" is actually slang. You might hear it 
a lot in songs or in music or in movies, okay, but  

in academic English, in correct grammar, it's 
not acceptable, so if you're doing an exam or  

if you're writing a paper for university or if 
you're trying to impress a client, it's probably  

not such a good idea to use it. Instead of that, 
you should use the correct version which is what?  

"He isn't studying", okay? That doesn't mean you 
can never use slang, you can certainly use slang  

with your friends or casually whenever you 
want to, but just be aware - what is slang,  

and what is not slang.
Next, sometimes the verb,  

the main verb, not the verb "to be", but the verb 
in the sentence is used incorrectly. For example,  

this person wrote "She is do her 
homework". How can we fix that? "She is  

doing her homework". And this one wrote "The 
game is start now". It should be "The game is  

starting now", okay? There we go, good. See, 
I'm sure you can find these now yourself, right?  

And that's the way. Now you've learned, you 
know the rules, you're able to apply the words,  

whether you're reading something or whether 
you're looking at something or whether you're  

writing it yourself or whether you're 
speaking, it will come out right.
 

Next, sometimes mistakes are made in spelling. For 
example, there are several mistakes here. "She's  

lieing" but this should be what? Not lie, lying. 
This was one of those verbs also, "She's siting",  

but it's consonant, vowel, consonant, so we need 
to double the last letter, sitting, and here,  

"writeing", ends with an E, the verb "write", so 
we need to get rid of that E, okay? So be careful  

of those spelling changes that we talked about. 
Also, here's a spelling mistake. This person wrote  

"Were going to the mall." That's what they 
wanted to say, but what's missing here? The  

apostrophe, good. So, that goes right 
here, okay? Instead of "We are" it became  

"We're". "We're going to the mall". Okay?
Next, sometimes people forget, and they use a  

stative verb anyway in this tense and they might 
say something like "I am needing some water.",  

but can we say that? No. In correct English, you 
cannot say that, because "need" is one of those  

stated verbs. So, you'd need to change that and 
just say "I need some water". The same here,  

"I'm wanting to visit Hawaii". No, "want" is 
another stated verb, so we just say, "I want  

to visit Hawaii", okay? And last of all, remember 
what I told you, what we talked about earlier,  

that we don't and should not be using this 
tense to talk about permanent situations.  

So, for example, somebody asked this 
person "What does your company do?"  

and he said, "We are manufacturing cars." 
But that's not right, because it's not  

something they do just temporarily, it 
takes a lot of work and organization  

to do this work, so it should be not "We are 
manufacturing cars.", but just "We manufacture  

cars.", okay? So, in that case, using the present 
continuous tense would be incorrect. You just  

needed there - the other present simple tense. So, 
these are some of the common mistakes, and I think  

you see that once you know the rules, the rules 
actually make it easier for you. They free you to  

speak and communicate more correctly.
So, we've covered a lot in this class.  

Let's review now, just one last time. You 
know this tense when you can make, what?  

A positive sentence, a negative sentence, and a 
question. For example: "David is making coffee."  

A positive. "David is not making coffee." A 
negative sentence. "Is David making coffee?"  

A question, or to add question words to that, for 
example, "When is David making coffee?" "Why is  

David making coffee?", and so on. Okay? So, what 
can you do from here? To practice this tense,  

try to think of examples in your own life. Talk 
to yourself as you're going through your day.  

What are you doing at that moment? I'm waking 
up, I'm brushing my teeth, I'm taking a shower,  

I'm having breakfast, there are so many things 
that you can say as you're walking around. You  

don't have to say them aloud, you can also say 
them in your mind, okay, but try to use the tense  

that you've learned so well right now, okay?
Now, when you feel that you know this tense, then  

you can go on to the next lesson in this series, 
because this is a series of the verb tenses.  

Next, after that, you can also practice a 
little bit more, if you wish, by taking a quiz  

on www.engvid.com . Thanks very much for 
watching, and all the best with your English.
 

In this lesson, you will learn the difference 
between the present simple tense and the present  

continuous tense, which is also called the 
present progressive tense. In other words,  

you'll learn the difference between 
saying "I work" or "I am working". So,  

this lesson is part of a series created by engVid 
to help you learn all of the English verb tenses.  

Now, I have created lessons on each of these 
tenses separately, and maybe you have already  

watched them, and now you're watching this, which 
is great, or you can watch this lesson and then  

you can go on and watch the other separate lessons 
so that you can go into more detail if you wish.  

So, both of these tenses are basic tenses. 
However, they don't exist in all languages,  

and maybe they don't exist in your language, 
so pay a little more attention and as you do,  

you will understand easily the differences between 
these tenses. So, shall we begin? Let's go!
 

So, the present simple tense 
sounds like this: I work.  

The present continuous tense sounds like this: I 
am working. So, what's the very basic difference?  

The basic difference is that "I am working" 
talks about something that's happening right now,  

or something temporary that happens for 
a short time. "I work", present simple,  

talks about something that's true in general, or 
something more permanent, something that lasts  

for a long time. That's the very basic difference, 
but we're going to be looking at all of the really  

specific differences between these two tenses. But 
first, let's see, what does this tense even look  

like? What does it sound like? Let's see that.
So, with present simple,  

we basically take the subject + the verb. 
In this case, our sample verb is "work". So,  

it would sound like this - you can say it after me 
if you like. It's good to repeat things out loud,  

helps you to feel more comfortable and get used 
to using it yourself. So, we would say: I work.  

You work. We work. They work. But here we have a 
difference: He works. We have to add an "s" there.  

She works. It works, okay? Again, once 
you've studied this tense in detail,  

you'll know all of these changes perfectly, 
but I'm just giving you an overall view. When  

it becomes negative, it becomes "He does 
not work.", or, if it becomes a question,  

it would say "Does he work?", alright? So, 
that's the basis of the present simple.
 

Now, let's look at present continuous. 
Now here, what happens? We have a subject:  

I, he, you, they, etc., + the verb "to be", we 
need that helping verb here, + our basic verb,  

which in this case is "work", + "-ing", so it's 
a little bit longer because we have that helping  

verb in the middle, plus we have "-ing" at the 
end, okay? So, how does this sound? I am working.  

You are working. We are working. They are working. 
He is working. She is working. And, it is working,  

alright? So, that's the basic positive form of it. 
The negative form would be just to add a "not".  

"You are not working". He is not working. And if 
we shorten that, it becomes "He isn't working".  

And if we make it into a 
question, change the order,  

we would say "Is he working?" Are you working? 
Are they working? And so on, okay? So,  

that's the basic structure of the two tenses, and 
next we will be looking at when to use them.
 

So, we use these two tenses in different 
ways. Let's understand now what they are.  

So, in the present simple, we would say, for 
example, "I live in this building". This is my  

permanent residence. This is where I live 
all the time. So, we use present simple:  

"I live". In present continuous, we 
might say "I am staying at a hotel."  

This is something temporary. It's not all the 
time, it's only for some time. So, here, we have  

"I am staying", which is present continuous, 
here we have "I live", which is present simple.  

Permanent, temporary. Next, we could say "He 
plays the guitar." This is true in general.  

It means he knows how to play the 
guitar. He plays. Present simple.  

Here, we could say "He is playing the 
guitar." That means he's doing that right now.  

He is playing now. As soon as we say, "He is 
playing", even if we don't use the word "now",  

this tense already means that it's happening 
right now, okay? So, he plays in general,  

but he is playing the guitar 
means it's happening right now.  

Another example, "We watch the news at 9:00pm." 
"We watch", okay? This is to talk about a routine,  

every day we watch the news at 9:00pm. 
Alright? So that's to describe a routine,  

something that happens regularly. Or, we could say 
here "We are watching the news." "We are watching"  

means what? In this case again, it's happening 
right now, okay? We're watching the news, call  

us later, we're just watching the news, happening 
now. But, every day, we watch the news at 9:00,  

okay? So that's a routine, that's 
again something that's happening now.  

See the difference? Let's look at another one. 
"The sun sets in the west." "The sun sets",  

okay? The sun rises in the morning, the sun 
sets in the evening. This is just a fact,  

okay? So, we use present simple to talk 
about facts. But, here, we could say "Look,  

how beautiful, the sun is setting! The sky 
is all orange and pink and lovely colors".  

So, this means the sun "is setting" means it's 
happening right now, alright? So here, it was a  

fact, the sun sets in the west, it's just a fact, 
and here, it's happening now. So, these are the  

first few differences between these two tenses.
Now, here are some more differences. In present  

simple, we would say "The price rises every 
year." This is something that happens in general.  

In present continuous, we might say "The 
price is rising this year." This is a trend,  

this is the general direction in which things 
are changing, so here, the price "is rising"  

this year, but the price "rises every 
year", okay? This is present simple.  

Next, suppose we want to talk about a habit. 
We might say "She always takes the bus."  

She always takes - but here, we might say 
"She is always complaining about the bus."  

So, when you're talking about a negative 
habit, then we can use present continuous,  

but if you're just talking about a regular 
habit, then you would use present simple.  

Alright? Next, we could say, in present 
simple, "The flight leaves at 7:00pm."  

Now, why do we use present simple for that? 
Because it's a regularly scheduled event,  

right? The flight leaves at 7:00pm, that's 
the schedule. It always leaves at 7:00pm.  

But in present continuous, we might say "The 
flight is leaving." The flight is leaving  

means what? The flight is leaving right now, 
okay? And we know that because we have "is  

leaving". Here, we had just "leaves". Okay. And 
now here's something where both of these tenses  

can actually be used for the same purpose, but 
in different ways, with different language.  

So, we could say, for example, even though this 
is the present simple, and even though this is  

the present continuous, until now we have been 
talking about present uses, but let's look at this  

example, this is different. "The flight leaves at 
7:00pm tomorrow." What, Rebecca, really? Leaves,  

present simple, and tomorrow? Yes, we could 
say that, and we do say that sometimes. Why?  

Because it's kind of connected with this one 
because it's a regularly scheduled event, right?  

Then we could use it to talk about tomorrow, okay? 
And sometimes we do. So, we could say "The flight  

leaves at 7:00pm tomorrow." and it's kind of 
connected to this idea of the schedule, alright?  

But similarly, you could also say "The flight is 
leaving at 7:00pm tomorrow." Again, you're saying,  

"Rebecca, really, this is present continuous, 
why are we using it to talk about the future?"  

Because we can! It has a special use where 
we can say - use present continuous to talk  

about something in the future but you have to say 
something like tomorrow, next week, next Monday,  

next year. You have to give the time, because 
if you say, "The flight is leaving at 7:00pm.",  

what does it mean? It's leaving right now. But 
- or, a little bit in the future - but if we say  

the flight is leaving at 7:00pm tomorrow, then 
we know for certain it's in the future and yes,  

we can also use present continuous along with 
a few other ways to talk about the future.
 

There's one other really important difference 
between the present simple tense and the present  

continuous tense, and that has to do with the 
kind of verbs we can use with each tense. So,  

one way to divide verbs in English is to see 
whether it's an action verb or whether it's a  

stative verb. An action verb is something that 
has action. For example, run or jump, or sing  

and dance, read and write. These are all action 
verbs. And action verbs, we can use in the present  

simple tense and we can also use them in the 
present continuous tense. For example, I could say  

"She runs", as in, she runs every day, or "She 
is running", like she's running right now, but  

stative verbs are different. Stative 
verbs describe a state or condition.  

It could be a mental state, it could be an 
emotional state, it could talk about possession,  

it could talk about certain senses, and there is a 
list of stative verbs which you need to learn when  

you're studying English grammar, because most of 
the time, we cannot use the stative verbs in the  

continuous tenses. But, with the present simple, 
you can use all the verbs. You can use the action  

verbs and you can use stative verbs, no problem, 
alright? So, for example, we can definitely say  

"He knows them." or "We like them.", knowing 
being something mental, and like being something  

emotional, alright? So, with present simple, use 
any verb you like. With present continuous, be  

careful, definitely you can use the action words, 
but if you are not sure about the stative verbs,  

avoid them. As a general rule, 
be careful of using any stative  

verbs with the present continuous tense.


