Hey guys welcome to my channel in this video
大家好，欢迎来到我的频道，在这个视频中，

I'm gonna give you top 50 English phrases that you can use in your everyday life
我将给你们介绍日常生活中可以使用的 50 个最佳英语短语。

So if you are just about to embark on your journey to an english-speaking country, you can totally use this
所以，如果您即将踏上前往英语国家的旅程，您完全可以使用这个

Phrases if you have been learning English for a while and you want to resume learning
如果您已经学习英语一段时间并且想重新开始学习，那么

This is the best video to start with so let's go 50 phrases in English in hopefully 10 minutes
短语是最好的开始视频，所以让我们在 10 分钟内学习 50 个英语短语

Phrase number one this is another way to ask. How are you? How is it going? How's it going?
第一个短语是另一种提问方式。 你好吗？ 最近好吗？ 怎么样了？

So you meet someone and you time how is it going?
所以你遇到了一个人，你想知道进展如何？

Phrase number two when you haven't seen somebody for a while you tell him a long time no see
第二句话，当你有一段时间没见到某人时，你告诉他很久不见

So that means that you haven't seen this person maybe weeks or months a long time no see phrase number
这意味着你可能已经几周或几个月没有见过这个人了，

three if you want to ask you what have you been doing
如果你想问你，请参阅第三句话 你一直在做什么

You ask what have you been up to so what was going on in your life?
你问你最近在做什么，那么你的生活中发生了什么？

What have you been up to raise them before if everything is going? Well you can just answer can't complain
如果一切顺利的话，你之前准备过什么来抚养他们？ 好吧，你可以只是回答不能抱怨

Everything is really cool. Can't complain
一切都真的很酷。 不能抱怨

next phrase somebody tells you something and you haven't really mentioned it in the
下一句话有人告诉你一些事情，而你在对话中没有真正提到它，

Conversation like they guess somehow that you have a new job, and you ask him. How do you know?
就像他们以某种方式猜测你有一份新工作，然后你问他。 你怎么知道？

Where did you get the news like how do you know if somebody tells a cool joke you can tell that's a good one
你从哪里得到这样的消息，比如你怎么知道有人讲了一个很酷的笑话，你可以说那是一个好笑话

That's a great joke so the phrase is that's a good one
那是一个很棒的笑话，所以这句话是那是一个好笑话

If you want to thank somebody you can say it's very kind of you
如果你想感谢某人，你可以说 it's very kind of you

Thank you so much for doing that that's very kind of you it is very
非常感谢您所做的事情，

Kind of you if somebody was trying to help you, but couldn't reach the result you can say. Thank you anyway
如果有人试图帮助您，但无法达到您所说的结果，那么您真是太好了。 不管怎样，谢谢你，

It doesn't matter, but thank you anyway. Thank you for your effort. No
没关系，但还是谢谢你。 感谢您的努力。 不，

Thank you anyway, and another phrase that I use in my email sometimes when I haven't asked for a person
无论如何，谢谢你，有时当我没有询问某人时，我会在电子邮件中使用另一个短语

I ask and then I say in the end
，然后我会在最后说“

Thank you in advance, which means that I really hope that you're gonna. Do it some thanking you in advance
提前谢谢你”，这意味着我真的希望你会。

Thank you in advance if somebody made a mistake, and he's really
提前谢谢你 如果有人犯了错误，而且他

Upset about it. You can just say no worries. Don't worry
对此感到非常沮丧，请提前谢谢你。 你可以直接说不用担心。 别担心

No worries, which means don't worry about it. It's fine. No worries imagine
不用担心，意思是不用担心。 没关系。 不用担心，想象一下

You came home and there are all of your friends sitting on your couch
你回到家，你所有的朋友都坐在你的沙发上，

And you're like what's going on in here like what are you doing here?
你就像这里发生了什么，就像你在这里做什么？

What is going on if you didn't catch something or it didn't understand the person you can always ask did I get you right?
如果您没有听懂某些内容或它不理解您可以随时询问的人我是否理解正确，这是怎么回事？

And then go ahead and explain where you got did I get you right?
然后继续解释你说的对吗？

If you ask somebody not to be upset not to cry you can say don't take it to heart
如果你要求某人不要难过，不要哭泣，你可以说，不要把它放在心上，

Don't take it to heart like seriously don't be so upset don't take it to heart
不要把它放在心上，不要那么心烦意乱，不要放在心上，用

Another way to ask if you didn't catch a part of a phrase you can say I didn't catch the last word
另一种方式问你是否没有 听不懂短语的一部分，你可以说我没听清最后一个单词，

I'm sorry
对不起，

Can you repeat it because I didn't catch the last word if he wants somebody to repeat the whole phrase again
你能重复一下吗，因为我没听清最后一个单词，如果他想让某人再次重复整个短语，

You can say sorry. I wasn't listening because maybe you were busy
你可以说抱歉 。 我没有听，因为也许你很忙，

Maybe you were talking on the phone and somebody was talking to you, and you're like. Oh my god. Sorry
也许你正在打电话，有人在和你说话，你就像。 我的天啊。 抱歉

I wasn't listening. Can you repeat it?
我没在听。 你能重复一下吗？

I'm sorry. I wasn't listening another phrase that I use all the time
对不起。 我没有在听我一直使用的另一个短语“

It doesn't matter like don't worry if you drop your coffee all over me. It's like it doesn't matter. I'll be fine
不要担心，如果你把咖啡洒在我身上，这并不重要”。 好像没关系。 我会没事的，

I'm going to laundry anyway
反正我要去洗衣服，

It doesn't matter if you want to wish somebody luck
如果你想祝某人好运，那没关系，

And I always do that you can say fingers crossed and you cross the fingers like that
我总是这样做，你可以说“手指交叉”，然后你交叉手指，就像“

fingers crossed
手指交叉”一样，

another phrase that Americans use is Oh bad that explains it and
美国人使用的另一个短语是哦 不好，这可以解释它，

The situation is you didn't get something and then you get an extra effect, and you get it
情况是你没有得到一些东西，然后你得到了额外的效果，你得到了它，

And you're like oh that that explains it that explains it
你就像哦，这解释了它，解释了它

Another way to tell the person to not be upset is you can say things happen like it's okay
另一种告诉人们不要难过的方法是 你可以说事情发生就好像没事一样

Things happen do not be upset if you don't have the name of a person you want to talk to him
事情发生却不然 如果您不知道想要与他交谈的人的名字，就会感到不安

You can say sorry to bother you you know you see
您可以说抱歉打扰您，您知道您看到了

Somebody's busy you can always say sorry to bother you and then you can go ahead and ask
有人很忙，您可以随时说抱歉打扰您，然后您可以继续询问

Sorry to bother you
对不起 打扰你

If you are in the middle of something in somebody's asking you something you can say oh
如果你正在做某事，有人问你某件事，你可以说哦，

You're in the middle of something and somebody somebody's asking you to do something you say, I'm sorry
你正在做某事，有人要求你做某事，你说，对不起，

I'll be with you in a minute
我会和你在一起 一会儿

I'll be with you in and then you resume doing something and you say where were we?
我会和你在一起然后 你继续做某事并说我们在哪里？

Like when did we stop where were we and you have to repeat it because what it's the sound that somebody some people
就像我们什么时候停在where were we 上，你必须重复一遍，因为有人把这个声音

mistake with B
误认为是B。

So this is a great way to practice where were we again if you're in the middle of a conversation?
所以，如果你在谈话中，这是一个很好的方法来练习我们在where were 吗？

and you didn't get what the other person was saying you can say you were saying and with a question mark
你没有听懂对方在说什么，你可以说你在说，并带有问号，

Which means which prompts the person to repeat once again?
这意味着这会促使对方再次重复？

You were saying
你说

If somebody got a job of his dreams of whatever you can say
如果有人找到了他梦想的工作，你可以说“

Lucky you or somebody got into the university of their dreams like lucky you
幸运的是你”或者有人进入了他们梦想的大学，比如“幸运的你”，

this is a way of congratulating the person lucky you or like just
这是祝贺那个幸运的人的一种方式，或者只是

Emphasizing that he's lucky lucky
强调他很幸运，“幸运的是

you another way to say that you're really angry is to say I freaked out like I was so angry I
你” 表达你真的很生气的方法就是说我吓坏了，就像我非常生气一样，我

Freaked out this is super angry. Oh, this is like almost crazy. I freaked out
吓坏了，这太生气了。 哦，这几乎是疯狂的。 我吓坏了。

Another phrase that native speakers use is good for you
母语人士使用的另一个短语对你有好处，

and this could be both positive and negative when you say I got promoted and if they say good for you like congratulations and
当你说我升职了，如果他们说对你有好处，比如恭喜，

Sometimes if you say like I'm leaving this place. They're like good for you
有时如果你说我要离开这个地方，这可能是积极的，也可能是消极的。 他们对你有好处，

It would be better without you and this is a negative meaning so really listen to the intonation
没有你会更好，这是一个消极的含义，所以认真听语调

If something surprises you you can also say you gotta be kidding me like oh my god
如果有什么让你惊讶，你也可以说你一定是在跟我开玩笑，天啊

I cannot believe it you gotta be kidding me
我不敢相信你一定是在开玩笑 我

To tell somebody to smile and to be happy you can always say cheer up cheer up
要告诉某人微笑并快乐，你可以随时说“cheer up 欢呼”

If you want somebody just sound like crying and complaining about something that is not happening you can say come
如果你想让某人听起来像是在哭泣并抱怨没有发生的事情，你可以说“来吧，

I'm you can do it I?
我是，你能做到吗？”

Come on. You can do it
快点。 你能做到，

You can pass the TOEFL you can pass the GMAT you will get it come on. You can do it
你能通过托福，你能通过GMAT，你会成功的。 你可以做到

If somebody is doing really well, you can tell them keep up the good work keep up the good work
如果有人做得很好，你可以告诉他们 keep up the good work keep the good work

Like be as good as you are and keep up the good work continue being
Like be as good as you are and keep up the good work continuebeing

Another phrase is colloquial, and this is what Americans say. That's lit which means that's amazing
另一种说法很口语化，美国人就是这么说的 说。  “那亮了，这意味着太棒了”

Many Americans said in California. Oh that's lit and you probably heard it in songs
许多美国人在加利福尼亚州说。 哦，那亮了，你可能在歌曲中听到过

That's lit if somebody is successful after failures, so you can say there you go
如果有人在失败后成功，那就会亮，所以你可以说，你去吧，

I told you you're gonna make it there you go
我告诉过你，你会成功的，你去吧，

If somebody's asking you if you're tired
如果有人问你是否累了

And you want to say you're not tired at all you can say not a bit nah. I want to continue
，你想要 如果说你一点也不累，你可以说 not a bit nah。 我想继续

I'm not tired not of it when somebody is asking you
我不厌倦当有人问你

Are you sure and you're pretty sure you can say there is no room for that?
你确定并且你很确定你可以说没有空间吗？

There is no room for doubt in America if you want to SMS somebody or send them a message
在美国，如果你想给某人发短信或给他们发送一条消息，

you say
你说

text to text so I'll text you means I will send you a message through whatsapp or a
文本到文本，那么我给你发短信意味着我会通过 Whatsapp 或

Telegram or messenger of whatever using I'll text you
Telegram 或任何使用我会使用的方式向你发送消息，这是毫无疑问的 再次给你发短信让

Again to cheer somebody up to tell them to not be upset you can say it's not worth it
别人振作起来，告诉他们不要难过，你可以说这不值得，

Like why are you crying? It's not worth it. You're so much better than the problem
比如你为什么哭？ 这是不值得的。 你比

You are crying about it's not worth your tears. It's not worth it
你所哭泣的问题要好得多，这不值得你流泪。 这不值得，

I personally love the phrase you rock which means you're amazing. Oh my god. You rock you rock?
我个人很喜欢“you rock”这句话，意思是“你太棒了”。 我的天啊。 你摇滚你摇滚吗？

No, you've done an amazing job. You rock if somebody's not working really well, and you want them to work harder
不，你做得非常出色。 如果某人工作得不太好，而你希望他们更加努力，你就会感到震惊。

You can say you should go an extra mile
你可以说你应该加倍努力，

Which means like work harder you should go an extra mile
这意味着就像工作更加努力，你应该加倍努力。

Another way to say the very same thing you can say step up your game like work harder work better
同样的事情的另一种说法是，你可以说“加强你的工作” 游戏就像工作更努力工作更好

Step up your game. If somebody's crying and doesn't want it. It sinks you say pull yourself together
加强你的游戏。 如果有人哭泣并且不想要它。 你说振作起来，

Like literally take yourself and pull yourself together stop working stop crying pull yourself together. Hey calm down
就像字面意义上的振作起来，让自己振作起来，停止工作，停止哭泣，振作起来。 嘿，让自己冷静下来，

yourself together

another phrase that
另一句话是

I love you sold me because sometimes people describe their trip or somebody they bought and they describe it is so well
我爱你卖给了我，因为有时人们描述他们的旅行或他们买的人，他们描述得很好

And they're like I want to buy the same thing and I tell them you sold it you sold me I wouldn't buy this
他们就像我想买同样的东西，我告诉他们你把它卖了你 卖了我，我不会买这个

Alright, you sold me if you're not interested in the conversation. You're like sitting you can say I could not care less
好吧，如果你对谈话不感兴趣，你就卖了我。 你就像坐着你可以说我不在乎

This is so boring. I'm not interested. I couldn't care less if
这太无聊了。 我对此不感兴趣。 我不在乎是否

Somebody's asking you something and this is a really easy decision for you like somebody tells you take my 1 million dollars
有人问你什么，这对你来说是一个非常简单的决定，就像有人告诉你拿走我的 100 万美元，

And you say this is a no-brainer. I'll take it. This is a no-brainer means
而你说这是理所当然的。 我要买它。 这是一个显而易见的方法，

It's a really easy decision for you if you've done something wrong and you admit it you can say I screwed up
如果你做错了事并且你承认了，你可以说我搞砸了，对你来说这是一个非常容易的决定，

Yes guys. I know. I'm sorry. I screwed up. This is my mistake. I screwed up
是的，伙计们。 我知道。 对不起。 我搞砸了。 这是我的错误。 我搞砸了

I screwed it up if you want somebody to work instead of me
我搞砸了 如果你想让别人代替我工作

you can say can you cover me like can you work instead of me while I'm
你可以说你能掩护我吗 就像当我和我的朋友见面时你能代替我工作

seeing my friend

Can you cover me it's time to leave and guys I'd better be going which means I should go already
你能掩护我吗 现在是时候离开了，伙计们，我会 最好走，这意味着我应该走了，

It's you know. It's actually 1 9 p.m.. Right now. I'd better be going another way to say goodbye
你知道的。 现在实际上是下午 1 点 9 点。 我最好以另一种方式告别，

I can say take care, which means take care of yourself. I'll see you later
我可以说“照顾好”，意思是照顾好自己。 稍后再见，

Take care. I don't know what day is it when you're watching this video, but if it's Friday for example weekend
保重。 我不知道您观看此视频时今天是星期几，但如果是星期五，例如周末，

You can say thank heavens is Friday or think heavens said Saturday weekend discovery
您可以说感谢上帝是星期五，或者认为上帝说星期六周末发现

I'm so happy this was it guys 50 phrases in English
我很高兴这就是伙计们 50 个短语

Let me know if this was helpful by liking this video and commenting below if you know any more cool phrases. That would be great
如果您知道更多很酷的短语，请点赞此视频并在下面发表评论，让我知道这是否有帮助。 那太好了 那里

There's a red button
有一个红色按钮

over there somewhere

Subscribe to this channel to not miss my new videos. I love you guys. Thank you so much for watching this bye
订阅这个频道就不会错过我的新视频。 我爱你们。 非常感谢您观看本次再见


